---
title: A Deep Dive Into the Academy's Interest Rate Generator
date: 2019-12-19
draft: TRUE
tags: ["interest rates", "julia", "actuarial"]
---

## Introduction
The American Academy of Actuaries' Economic Scenario Working Group (ESWG) initially released its updated interest rate scenario generator model in December of 2008. Since then it has gone through multiple iterations and methodology changes. The changes are spread throughout release notes, reports, presentations, and FAQs over the last ten years. This is my attempt to aggregate all of this information in one location. While going through this process, I've ported the calculations as close to verbatim from the Excel model to Julia and demonstrate how intuitive and performant the programming language can be.

## History
The following are exerts from a December 2008 report from the ESWG to the NAIC providing context on the history of the latest scenario generator:

> The American Academy of Actuaries’ Economic Scenario Work Group (ESWG) was asked to develop an interest rate generator and calibration criteria so companies could use either Academy-generated scenarios or their own internal model that calibrates to the Academy scenarios for regulatory reserve and capital calculations.

> The ESWG received its direction from the Standards for Stochastic Methods Work Group (SSMWG) Report, September 2006.
> The charge to the ESWG was stated as: 
> - The ESWG will provide a prescribed generator containing updated parameters.
> - The ESWG will generate calibration criteria so companies can use their own generator or a subset of the base 10,000 Academy scenarios. 

> The direction provided by the Standards for Stochastic Methods Work Group was accepted by the NAIC and formed the basis of the ESWG’s work.

> The NAIC [LHATF and LRBC] received reports describing the proposed Academy interest rate scenario generator at the Summer 2007 NAIC meeting and again at the Fall 2007 NAIC meeting. No comments were received from the NAIC or individual regulators regarding either of these reports. There have been only slight adjustments to the generator since then. Technical aspects of the generator are included in Appendices I, II and III.

> The Stochastic Log Volatility (SLV) model is consistent with the previous interest rate model approved by the NAIC during the C-3 Phase I project that was completed in 1999. The ESWG has spent the past year considering calibration criteria to allow company-generated interest rate scenarios. An Academy document describing the reasons for and against using company-generated scenarios has been included as Appendix IV for reference.

> The ESWG has researched other regulatory regimes to understand the range of practices. We found some information specific to Canada and the United Kingdom, where peer review and transparency are key features. There is little specific guidance from either banking or insurance regulatory bodies, with the Basel Accords in particular requiring defense of the assumption chosen rather than a prescriptive requirement. Stochastic interest rate scenarios are generally considered “best practice” in the financial services industry for valuing the cash flows from contingent claims. No references to deterministic scenarios used for principle-based approaches to reserves or capital were found. In the information that was found, companies are encouraged to use the same models for valuation that is used to manage the business.

> Scenario generators can never accurately model the uncertainty that will actually occur in the future, especially over long time horizons. Using historical data, the SLV model reflects potential future variability consistent with the volatility and other characteristics (e.g., curve shape, correlated movements across the maturity spectrum, clustering, etc.) of observed interest rates. The SLV model is one of many that could be chosen. It has been found to produce reasonable real world interest rate scenarios. Alternative generators are not limited to the SLV, although their output will need to satisfy the Academy calibration criteria. Since model characteristics vary, tolerances have been added to allow consideration of alternative generators. Since there are multiple aspects of the calibration criteria, the actuary will apply judgment to determine if the company-generated scenarios satisfy enough of the requirements. This judgment will be based on the risk profile of the products being modeled. 